---
layout: main
title: index
---

h2. What

A set of Ruby tools for implementing both "OAuth":http://oauth.net clients (consumers) and servers (providers). The tools are based off the "OAuth 1.0a Specification.":http://oauth.net/core/1.0a/

h2. Installing

{% highlight bash %}
sudo gem install oauth
{% endhighlight %}

h2. What is OAuth?

OAuth is a protocol for authorization of protected resources for use by a 'consumer' from a 'provider'. The basic use case is for allowing one web service to access a users protected data on another service without sharing their credentials with both sites.

Here are some resources for learning more about the protocol itself:

* "Beginners Guide to OAuth":http://hueniverse.com/oauth/
* "The Authoritative Guide":http://hueniverse.com/oauth/guide/
* "Twitter's OAuth FAQ":http://apiwiki.twitter.com/OAuth-FAQ


h2. Usage

The OAuth Ruby gem strives to follow the specification as closely as possible. Terminology and conventions are taken from the spec.

To create a consuming application, first create a consumer object:

{% highlight ruby %}
@consumer = OAuth::Consumer.new('key', 'secret', {:site => 'https://twitter.com'})
{% endhighlight %}

To start the authorization process, create a request token with the @consumer@. Here in a Rails action, we store the token in a session cookie and then redirect the user to an authorization url where they can approve access to their data.

{% highlight ruby %}
@request_token = @consumer.get_request_token
session[:request_token] = @request_token
redirect_to @request_token.authorize_url
{% endhighlight %}

If successful, the provider will redirect to the 'callback URL' we've defined, and then we can request an access token:

{% highlight ruby %}
@access_token = @request_token.get_access_token
{% endhighlight %}

We can store this access token or use it immediately to request data from the provider:

{% highlight ruby %}
@photos = @access_token.get('/photos.xml')
{% endhighlight %}

For full API level documentation, Check out the "latest RDoc hosted at rdoc.info":http://rdoc.info/projects/oauth/oauth-ruby

Also check out:

* "OAuth Client Tutorial":http://stakeventures.com/articles/2008/02/23/developing-oauth-clients-in-ruby 
* "OAuth Twitter Apps on RubyInside":http://www.rubyinside.com/twitter-oauth-ruby-rails-sinatra-1665.html

h2. License

This code is free to use under the terms of the MIT license. 

h2. Questions/Issues/Comments?

The full source code and history are hosted on github:

"http://github.com/oauth/oauth-ruby":http://github.com/oauth/oauth-ruby

Forks and pull requests are welcome, but please supply tests and detailed commit messages. 

For help, questions, anything else check out the "Google Group/Mailing List at http://groups.google.com/group/oauth-ruby":http://groups.google.com/group/oauth-ruby